COMPILE.md, before:

Percona
---

rm sql/sql_yacc.h    
rm sql/sql_yacc.cc    
BUILD/autorun.sh    

CFLAGS="-arch i386 -arch x86_64 -O3 -fno-omit-frame-pointer" CXXFLAGS="-arch i386 -arch x86_64 -O3 -fno-omit-frame-pointer -felide-constructors -fno-exceptions -fno-rtti" ./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mysql --disable-dependency-tracking --with-extra-charsets=complex --enable-thread-safe-client --enable-local-infile --with-unix-socket-path=/Applications/MNPP/tmp/mysql/mysql.sock --with-charset=latin1 --with-collation=latin1_general_ci --with-mysqld-user=_mysql --enable-shared --with-plugins=all    

make    
make install

Freetype
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/freetype    
make    
make install

Curl
----
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/curl    
make    
make install

JPEG
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/jpeg --enable-shared --enable-static    
make    
make install

Libpng
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libpng    
make    
make install

GD
---
MACOSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=10.7 CFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe -no-cpp-precomp" CCFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe" CXXFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe" LDFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -bind_at_load" ./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/gd --with-jpeg=/Applications/MNPP/Library/jpeg    
make    
make install

LibXML
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libxml    
make    
make install

LibXSLT
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libxslt    
make    
make install

Gettext
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/gettext    
make    
make install

LibMCRYPT
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mcrypt    
make    
make install

MCRYPT
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mcrypt    
make    
make install

Libiconv
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libiconv    
make    
make install

PDO_MYSQL
---
cd PDO_MYSQL-1.0.2/    
phpize    
./configure --with-pdo-mysql=shared,/Applications/MNPP/Library/mysql/    
make    
cp modules/pdo_mysql.so /Applications/MNPP/Library/php/lib/php/extensions/no-debug-non-zts-20090626/

Libevent
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libevent    
make    
make install

MEMCACHED
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/memcached --with-libevent=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libevent/    
make    
make install

PHP-MEMCACHE
---
http://pecl.php.net/package/memcache 
cd memcache-3.0.5   
phpize && ./configure --enable-memcache && make    
cp modules/memcache.so /Applications/MNPP/Library/php/lib/php/extensions/no-debug-non-zts-20090626    
add extension=memcache.so in php.ini

PHP-MEMCACHE FOR PHP52
---
/Applications/MNPP/Library/php52/bin/phpize && ./configure --with-php-config=/Applications/MNPP/Library/php52/bin/php-config --disable-memcache-session  && make && make install

APC
---
APC http://pecl.php.net/package/APC    
/Applications/MNPP/Library/php{version}/bin/phpize    

MACOSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=10.6 CFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe -no-cpp-precomp" CCFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe" CXXFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe" LDFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -bind_at_load" ./configure --with-php-config=/Applications/MNPP/Library/php{VERSION}/bin/php-config    
make    
cp modules/apc.so /Applications/MNPP/Library/php/lib/php{VERSION}/extensions/no-debug-non-zts-20090626    
add extension=apc.so in php.ini    

APC FOR PHP52
---
/Applications/MNPP/Library/php52/bin/phpize && MACOSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=10.6 CFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe -no-cpp-precomp" CCFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe" CXXFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe" LDFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -bind_at_load" ./configure --with-php-config=/Applications/MNPP/Library/php52/bin/php-config && make && make install

MONGO
---
https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-php-driver    
cd mongodb-mongo-php-driver-*    
./configure    
sudo make install    
cp modules/mongo.so /Applications/MNPP/Library/php/lib/php/extensions/no-debug-non-zts-20090626/    
add extension=mongo.so in php.ini    

PHP 2.5.17
---

$ wget -c http://us3.php.net/get/php-5.2.17.tar.gz/from/this/mirror
$ tar xvfz php-5.2.17.tar.gz
$ cd php-5.2.17
$ wget -c http://php-fpm.org/downloads/php-5.2.17-fpm-0.5.14.diff.gz
$ gunzip php-5.2.17-fpm-0.5.14.diff.gz
$ patch -p1 < php-5.2.17-fpm-0.5.14.diff

./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/php52 --exec-prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/php52 --enable-cli --enable-gd-jis-conv --enable-gd-native-ttf --enable-mbstring --with-bz2 --with-curl=/Applications/MNPP/Library/curl --with-gd=/Applications/MNPP/Library/gd --with-gettext=shared,/Applications/MNPP/Library/gettext --with-freetype-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/freetype --with-jpeg-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/jpeg --with-libxml-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libxml --with-xsl=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libxslt --with-mcrypt=shared,/Applications/MNPP/Library/mcrypt --with-mhash --with-mysql=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mysql --enable-sockets --with-mysqli=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mysql/bin/mysql_config --with-openssl --with-png-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libpng --with-readline --with-ttf --with-xpm-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/xpm --with-zlib --with-config-file-path=/Applications/MNPP/conf/php52 --enable-fastcgi --enable-fpm --enable-force-cgi-redirect --with-fpm-conf=/Applications/MNPP/conf/php52/php-fpm --with-fpm-log=/Applications/MNPP/logs/php52/php-fpm.log --with-fpm-pid=/Applications/MNPP/tmp/php52/php-fpm.pid --with-libedit --enable-libxml --enable-dom --with-ncurses=/usr/lib  --enable-pdo --with-pcre-regex --enable-hash --enable-session --enable-json --enable-spl --enable-filter --enable-simplexml --enable-xml --with-iconv=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libiconv --enable-soap
    
make    
make install    

PHP 5.3.8
---
brew install pkg-config
brew install curl
brew install openssl

./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/php53 --exec-prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/php53 --enable-cli --enable-gd-jis-conv --enable-gd-native-ttf --enable-mbstring --with-bz2 --with-curl --with-gd=/Applications/MNPP/Library/gd --with-gettext=shared,/Applications/MNPP/Library/gettext --with-freetype-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/freetype --with-jpeg-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/jpeg --with-libxml-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libxml --with-xsl=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libxslt --with-mcrypt=shared,/Applications/MNPP/Library/mcrypt --with-mhash --with-mysql=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mysql --enable-sockets --with-mysqli=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mysql/bin/mysql_config  --with-openssl --with-zlib-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/zlib --with-png-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libpng --with-readline --with-xpm-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/xpm --with-zlib --with-config-file-path=/Applications/MNPP/conf/php53 --enable-fpm --with-fpm-user=www-data --with-fpm-group=www-data --with-libedit --enable-libxml --enable-dom --enable-simplexml --with-iconv=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libiconv --with-pdo-mysql=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mysql/bin/mysql_config --enable-soap    
export EXTRA_CFLAGS=-lresolv    
make    
make install    

NGINX
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/nginx --sbin-path=/Applications/MNPP/Library/nginx --conf-path=/Applications/MNPP/conf/nginx/nginx.conf --user=www --group=www --with-http_ssl_module --with-http_stub_status_module --pid-path=/Applications/MNPP/run/nginx --with-http_gzip_static_module --with-pcre=/Applications/MNPP/src/pcre-8.11/    
make    
make install

Commit message:

support for tidy on php 5.3

COMPILE.md, after:

Percona
---

rm sql/sql_yacc.h    
rm sql/sql_yacc.cc    
BUILD/autorun.sh    

CFLAGS="-arch i386 -arch x86_64 -O3 -fno-omit-frame-pointer" CXXFLAGS="-arch i386 -arch x86_64 -O3 -fno-omit-frame-pointer -felide-constructors -fno-exceptions -fno-rtti" ./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mysql --disable-dependency-tracking --with-extra-charsets=complex --enable-thread-safe-client --enable-local-infile --with-unix-socket-path=/Applications/MNPP/tmp/mysql/mysql.sock --with-charset=latin1 --with-collation=latin1_general_ci --with-mysqld-user=_mysql --enable-shared --with-plugins=all    

make    
make install

Freetype
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/freetype    
make    
make install

Curl
----
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/curl    
make    
make install

JPEG
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/jpeg --enable-shared --enable-static    
make    
make install

Libpng
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libpng    
make    
make install

GD
---
MACOSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=10.7 CFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe -no-cpp-precomp" CCFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe" CXXFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe" LDFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -bind_at_load" ./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/gd --with-jpeg=/Applications/MNPP/Library/jpeg    
make    
make install

LibXML
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libxml    
make    
make install

LibXSLT
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libxslt    
make    
make install

Gettext
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/gettext    
make    
make install

LibMCRYPT
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mcrypt    
make    
make install

MCRYPT
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mcrypt    
make    
make install

Libiconv
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libiconv    
make    
make install

PDO_MYSQL
---
cd PDO_MYSQL-1.0.2/    
phpize    
./configure --with-pdo-mysql=shared,/Applications/MNPP/Library/mysql/    
make    
cp modules/pdo_mysql.so /Applications/MNPP/Library/php/lib/php/extensions/no-debug-non-zts-20090626/

Libevent
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libevent    
make    
make install

MEMCACHED
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/memcached --with-libevent=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libevent/    
make    
make install

PHP-MEMCACHE
---
http://pecl.php.net/package/memcache 
cd memcache-3.0.5   
phpize && ./configure --enable-memcache && make    
cp modules/memcache.so /Applications/MNPP/Library/php/lib/php/extensions/no-debug-non-zts-20090626    
add extension=memcache.so in php.ini

PHP-MEMCACHE FOR PHP52
---
/Applications/MNPP/Library/php52/bin/phpize && ./configure --with-php-config=/Applications/MNPP/Library/php52/bin/php-config --disable-memcache-session  && make && make install

APC
---
APC http://pecl.php.net/package/APC    
/Applications/MNPP/Library/php{version}/bin/phpize    

MACOSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=10.6 CFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe -no-cpp-precomp" CCFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe" CXXFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe" LDFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -bind_at_load" ./configure --with-php-config=/Applications/MNPP/Library/php{VERSION}/bin/php-config    
make    
cp modules/apc.so /Applications/MNPP/Library/php/lib/php{VERSION}/extensions/no-debug-non-zts-20090626    
add extension=apc.so in php.ini    

APC FOR PHP52
---
/Applications/MNPP/Library/php52/bin/phpize && MACOSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET=10.6 CFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe -no-cpp-precomp" CCFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe" CXXFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -g -Os -pipe" LDFLAGS="-arch x86_64 -bind_at_load" ./configure --with-php-config=/Applications/MNPP/Library/php52/bin/php-config && make && make install

MONGO
---
https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-php-driver    
cd mongodb-mongo-php-driver-*    
./configure    
sudo make install    
cp modules/mongo.so /Applications/MNPP/Library/php/lib/php/extensions/no-debug-non-zts-20090626/    
add extension=mongo.so in php.ini    

TIDY
---
http://pecl.php.net/package/tidy    
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/tidy --with-php-config=/Applications/MNPP/Library/php53/bin/php-config --with-tidy=/Applications/MNPP/Library/tidy    
make    
make install    

PHP 2.5.17
---

$ wget -c http://us3.php.net/get/php-5.2.17.tar.gz/from/this/mirror
$ tar xvfz php-5.2.17.tar.gz
$ cd php-5.2.17
$ wget -c http://php-fpm.org/downloads/php-5.2.17-fpm-0.5.14.diff.gz
$ gunzip php-5.2.17-fpm-0.5.14.diff.gz
$ patch -p1 < php-5.2.17-fpm-0.5.14.diff

./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/php52 --exec-prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/php52 --enable-cli --enable-gd-jis-conv --enable-gd-native-ttf --enable-mbstring --with-bz2 --with-curl=/Applications/MNPP/Library/curl --with-gd=/Applications/MNPP/Library/gd --with-gettext=shared,/Applications/MNPP/Library/gettext --with-freetype-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/freetype --with-jpeg-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/jpeg --with-libxml-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libxml --with-xsl=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libxslt --with-mcrypt=shared,/Applications/MNPP/Library/mcrypt --with-mhash --with-mysql=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mysql --enable-sockets --with-mysqli=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mysql/bin/mysql_config --with-openssl --with-png-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libpng --with-readline --with-ttf --with-xpm-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/xpm --with-zlib --with-config-file-path=/Applications/MNPP/conf/php52 --enable-fastcgi --enable-fpm --enable-force-cgi-redirect --with-fpm-conf=/Applications/MNPP/conf/php52/php-fpm --with-fpm-log=/Applications/MNPP/logs/php52/php-fpm.log --with-fpm-pid=/Applications/MNPP/tmp/php52/php-fpm.pid --with-libedit --enable-libxml --enable-dom --with-ncurses=/usr/lib  --enable-pdo --with-pcre-regex --enable-hash --enable-session --enable-json --enable-spl --enable-filter --enable-simplexml --enable-xml --with-iconv=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libiconv --enable-soap
    
make    
make install    

PHP 5.3.8
---
brew install pkg-config
brew install curl
brew install openssl

./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/php53 --exec-prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/php53 --enable-cli --enable-gd-jis-conv --enable-gd-native-ttf --enable-mbstring --with-bz2 --with-curl --with-tidy=/Applications/MNPP/Library/tidy --with-gd=/Applications/MNPP/Library/gd --with-gettext=shared,/Applications/MNPP/Library/gettext --with-freetype-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/freetype --with-jpeg-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/jpeg --with-libxml-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libxml --with-xsl=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libxslt --with-mcrypt=shared,/Applications/MNPP/Library/mcrypt --with-mhash --with-mysql=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mysql --enable-sockets --with-mysqli=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mysql/bin/mysql_config  --with-openssl --with-zlib-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/zlib --with-png-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libpng --with-readline --with-xpm-dir=/Applications/MNPP/Library/xpm --with-zlib --with-config-file-path=/Applications/MNPP/conf/php53 --enable-fpm --with-fpm-user=www-data --with-fpm-group=www-data --with-libedit --enable-libxml --enable-dom --enable-simplexml --with-iconv=/Applications/MNPP/Library/libiconv --with-pdo-mysql=/Applications/MNPP/Library/mysql/bin/mysql_config  --enable-soap    
export EXTRA_CFLAGS=-lresolv    
make    
make install    

NGINX
---
./configure --prefix=/Applications/MNPP/Library/nginx --sbin-path=/Applications/MNPP/Library/nginx --conf-path=/Applications/MNPP/conf/nginx/nginx.conf --user=www --group=www --with-http_ssl_module --with-http_stub_status_module --pid-path=/Applications/MNPP/run/nginx --with-http_gzip_static_module --with-pcre=/Applications/MNPP/src/pcre-8.11/    
make    
make install
